[DOC] Update Tempo doc to Alloy (#3843)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/configuration/grafana-alloy/service-graphs.md

---
title: Enable service graphs
menuTitle: Enable service graphs
description: Service graphs help to understand the structure of a distributed system, and the connections and dependencies between its components.
weight:
aliases:
  - ../../grafana-alloy/service-graphs/ # /docs/tempo/<TEMPO_VERSION>/grafana-alloy/service-graphs/
---

# Enable service graphs

A service graph is a visual representation of the interrelationships between various services.
Service graphs help to understand the structure of a distributed system,
and the connections and dependencies between its components.

The same service graph metrics can also be generated by Tempo.
This is more efficient and recommended for larger installations.

> For a deep look into service graphs, visit [this section]({{< relref "../../metrics-generator/service_graphs" >}}).
> 
> Service graphs are also used in the application performance management dashboard.
> For more information, refer to the [service graph view documentation]({{< relref "../../metrics-generator/service-graph-view" >}}).

Author: ```suggestion
For a deep look into service graphs, visit [this section](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/<TEMPO_VERSION>/metrics-generator/service_graphs).

Service graphs are also used in the application performance management dashboard.
For more information, refer to the [service graph view documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/<TEMPO_VERSION>/metrics-generator/service_graph-view).
```

{{< docs/shared source="alloy" lookup="agent-deprecation.md" version="next" >}}

To start using service graphs, enable the feature in the Alloy configuration.

The following example adds the `http.method` and `http.target` span attributes as Prometheus labels
to the generated service graph metrics, before writing the metrics to the Grafana OTLP gateway.
Received trace spans are immediately written to the OTLP gateway.

```alloy
otelcol.receiver.otlp "default" {
  grpc {}
  http {}

  output {
    traces = [
      otelcol.connector.servicegraph.default.input,
      otelcol.exporter.otlp.default.input
    ]
  }
}

otelcol.connector.servicegraph "default" {
  dimensions = ["http.method", "http.target"]
  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.exporter.otlp.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.exporter.otlp "default" {
  client {
    endpoint = env("OTLP_ENDPOINT")
  }
}
```

To see all the available configuration options, refer to the [component reference](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol.connector.servicegraph/).

### Grafana

The same service graph metrics can also be generated by Tempo.
This is more efficient and recommended for larger installations.

> For additional information about viewing service graph metrics in Grafana and calculating cardinality, refer to the [server side documentation]({{< relref "../../metrics-generator/service_graphs/enable-service-graphs" >}}).

Author: ```suggestion
For additional information about viewing service graph metrics in Grafana and calculating cardinality, refer to the [server side documentation]({https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/<TEMPO_VERSION>/metrics-generator/service_graphs/enable-service-graphs).
```
